README.rst, before:

SendGrid-Python
===============

This library allows you to quickly and easily send emails through
SendGrid using Python.

**Warning!** This library was recently updated to bring it up to date
with all of our other libraries. It behaves completely different from
the previous release. Also, SMTP has been deprecated in support for the
Web API.

Install
-------

.. code:: python

    pip install sendgrid
    # or
    easy_install sendgrid

Example
-------

.. code:: python

    import sendgrid

    sg = sendgrid.SendGridClient('YOUR_SENDGRID_USERNAME', 'YOUR_SENDGRID_PASSWORD')

    message = sendgrid.Mail()
    message.add_to('John Doe <john@email.com>')
    message.set_subject('Example')
    message.set_html('Body')
    message.set_text('Body')
    message.set_from('Doe John <doe@email.com>')
    status, msg = sg.send(message)

    #or

    message = sendgrid.Mail(to='john@email.com', subject='Example', html='Body', text='Body', from_email='doe@email.com')
    status, msg = sg.send(message)

Error handling
--------------

By default, ``.send`` method returns a tuple ``(http_status_code, message)``,
however you can pass ``raise_errors=True`` to ``SendGridClient`` constructor,
then ``.send`` method will raise ``SendGridClientError`` for 4xx errors,
and ``SendGridServerError`` for 5xx errors.

.. code:: python

    from sendgrid import SendGridError, SendGridClientError, SendGridServerError

    sg = sendgrid.SendGridClient(username, password, raise_errors=True)

    try:
        sg.send(message)
    except SendGridClientError:
        ...
    except SendGridServerError:
        ...

This behavior is going to be default from version 1.0.0. You are
encouraged to set ``raise_errors`` to ``True`` for forwards compatibility.

``SendGridError`` is a base-class for all SendGrid-related exceptions.

Adding Recipients
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    message = sendgrid.Mail()
    message.add_to('example@email.com')
    # or
    message.add_to('Example Dude <example@email.com>')
    # or
    message.add_to(['Example Dude <example@email.com>', 'john@email.com'])

Adding BCC Recipients
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    message = sendgrid.Mail()
    message.add_bcc('example@email.com')
    # or
    message.add_bcc(['Example Dude <example@email.com>', 'john@email.com'])

Setting the Subject
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    message = sendgrid.Mail()
    message.set_subject('Example')

Set Text or HTML
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    message = sendgrid.Mail()
    message.set_text('Body')
    # or
    message.set_html('<html><body>Stuff, you know?</body></html>')

Set From
~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    message = sendgrid.Mail()
    message.set_from('example@email.com')

Set ReplyTo
~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    message.sendgrid.Mail()
    message.set_replyto('example@email.com')

Set File Attachments
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    message = sendgrid.Mail()
    message.add_attachment('stuff.txt', './stuff.txt')
    # or
    message.add_attachment('stuff.txt', open('./stuff.txt', 'rb'))
    # or
    message.add_attachment_stream('filename', 'somerandomcontentyouwant')
    # strings, unicode, or BytesIO streams

SendGrid's `X-SMTPAPI`_
-----------------------

If you wish to use the X-SMTPAPI on your own app, you can use the
`SMTPAPI Python library`_.

There are implementations for setter methods too.

`Substitution`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    message = sendgrid.Mail()
    message.add_substitution("key", "value")

`Section`_
~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    message = sendgrid.Mail()
    message.add_section("section", "value")

`Category`_
~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    message = sendgrid.Mail()
    message.add_category("category")

`Unique Arguments`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    message = sendgrid.Mail()
    message.add_unique_arg("key", "value")

`Filter`_
~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    message = sendgrid.Mail()
    message.add_filter("filter", "setting", "value")

TODO:
~~~~~

-  Add support for CID

Tests
~~~~~

.. code:: python

    python test/__init__.py

MIT License
-----------

.. _X-SMTPAPI: http://sendgrid.com/docs/API_Reference/SMTP_API/
.. _SMTPAPI Python library: https://github.com/sendgrid/smtpapi-python
.. _Substitution: http://sendgrid.com/docs/API_Reference/SMTP_API/substitution_tags.html
.. _Section: http://sendgrid.com/docs/API_Reference/SMTP_API/section_tags.html
.. _Category: http://sendgrid.com/docs/Delivery_Metrics/categories.html
.. _Unique Arguments: http://sendgrid.com/docs/API_Reference/SMTP_API/unique_arguments.html
.. _Filter: http://sendgrid.com/docs/API_Reference/SMTP_API/apps.html

Commit message:

Updated readme, added cid arg to attachment methods

README.rst, after:

SendGrid-Python
===============

This library allows you to quickly and easily send emails through
SendGrid using Python.

**Warning!** This library was recently updated to bring it up to date
with all of our other libraries. It behaves completely different from
the previous release. Also, SMTP has been deprecated in support for the
Web API.

Install
-------

.. code:: python

    pip install sendgrid
    # or
    easy_install sendgrid

Example
-------

.. code:: python

    import sendgrid

    sg = sendgrid.SendGridClient('YOUR_SENDGRID_USERNAME', 'YOUR_SENDGRID_PASSWORD')

    message = sendgrid.Mail()
    message.add_to('John Doe <john@email.com>')
    message.set_subject('Example')
    message.set_html('Body')
    message.set_text('Body')
    message.set_from('Doe John <doe@email.com>')
    status, msg = sg.send(message)

    #or

    message = sendgrid.Mail(to='john@email.com', subject='Example', html='Body', text='Body', from_email='doe@email.com')
    status, msg = sg.send(message)

Error handling
--------------

By default, ``.send`` method returns a tuple ``(http_status_code, message)``,
however you can pass ``raise_errors=True`` to ``SendGridClient`` constructor,
then ``.send`` method will raise ``SendGridClientError`` for 4xx errors,
and ``SendGridServerError`` for 5xx errors.

.. code:: python

    from sendgrid import SendGridError, SendGridClientError, SendGridServerError

    sg = sendgrid.SendGridClient(username, password, raise_errors=True)

    try:
        sg.send(message)
    except SendGridClientError:
        ...
    except SendGridServerError:
        ...

This behavior is going to be default from version 1.0.0. You are
encouraged to set ``raise_errors`` to ``True`` for forwards compatibility.

``SendGridError`` is a base-class for all SendGrid-related exceptions.

Adding Recipients
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    message = sendgrid.Mail()
    message.add_to('example@email.com')
    # or
    message.add_to('Example Dude <example@email.com>')
    # or
    message.add_to(['Example Dude <example@email.com>', 'john@email.com'])

Adding BCC Recipients
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    message = sendgrid.Mail()
    message.add_bcc('example@email.com')
    # or
    message.add_bcc(['Example Dude <example@email.com>', 'john@email.com'])

Setting the Subject
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    message = sendgrid.Mail()
    message.set_subject('Example')

Set Text or HTML
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    message = sendgrid.Mail()
    message.set_text('Body')
    # or
    message.set_html('<html><body>Stuff, you know?</body></html>')

Set From
~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    message = sendgrid.Mail()
    message.set_from('example@email.com')

Set ReplyTo
~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    message.sendgrid.Mail()
    message.set_replyto('example@email.com')

Set File Attachments
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    message = sendgrid.Mail()
    message.add_attachment('stuff.txt', './stuff.txt')
    # or
    message.add_attachment('stuff.txt', open('./stuff.txt', 'rb'))
    # or
    message.add_attachment_stream('filename', 'somerandomcontentyouwant')
    # strings, unicode, or BytesIO streams

You may also add a content ID for reference in an inline embedded image using
the CID method (see asdf for more info). For example, you may add your image
with a CID and reference that in your HTML.:

.. code:: python

    message = sendgrid.Mail()
    message.add_attachment('image1.jpg', './image1.jpg', cid='my-embedded-image')
    message.set_html('<html><body><p>Hi!</p><img src="cid:my-embedded-image"><p>Bye</p></body></html>')

SendGrid's `X-SMTPAPI`_
-----------------------

If you wish to use the X-SMTPAPI on your own app, you can use the
`SMTPAPI Python library`_.

There are implementations for setter methods too.

`Substitution`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    message = sendgrid.Mail()
    message.add_substitution("key", "value")

`Section`_
~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    message = sendgrid.Mail()
    message.add_section("section", "value")

`Category`_
~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    message = sendgrid.Mail()
    message.add_category("category")

`Unique Arguments`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    message = sendgrid.Mail()
    message.add_unique_arg("key", "value")

`Filter`_
~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    message = sendgrid.Mail()
    message.add_filter("filter", "setting", "value")

Tests
~~~~~

.. code:: python

    python test/__init__.py

MIT License
-----------

.. _X-SMTPAPI: http://sendgrid.com/docs/API_Reference/SMTP_API/
.. _SMTPAPI Python library: https://github.com/sendgrid/smtpapi-python
.. _Substitution: http://sendgrid.com/docs/API_Reference/SMTP_API/substitution_tags.html
.. _Section: http://sendgrid.com/docs/API_Reference/SMTP_API/section_tags.html
.. _Category: http://sendgrid.com/docs/Delivery_Metrics/categories.html
.. _Unique Arguments: http://sendgrid.com/docs/API_Reference/SMTP_API/unique_arguments.html
.. _Filter: http://sendgrid.com/docs/API_Reference/SMTP_API/apps.html
